h1. Geoffrey M. Blair

Email: "resume@geoffblair.com":mailto:resume@geoffblair.com
Phone: (408) 512-0238
Web: "http://resume.geoffblair.com":http://resume.geoffblair.com

h2. Objective

Develop engaging web based applications with team members who are passionate about excellence in software development.

h2. Skills

HTML/XHTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, JSON, XML, YUI, Apache, CVS, Subversion, SQL, cross-browser development, object oriented programming, debugging, Adobe Photoshop, FreeBSD, Mac OSX

h2. Experience

h3. Yahoo!, Inc. - Yahoo! Games

Santa Monica, CA / Sunnyvale, CA
Front-End Engineer / Web Developer
April 2007 - Present
"http://games.yahoo.com":http://games.yahoo.com

* Project lead for complete redesign of Yahoo! Games front end
* Re-factored much legacy front end code including a PHP4 to PHP5 conversion
* Improved web site performance dramatically
* Managed 3 separate front end stacks as the sole Front-End engineer
* Worked closely with Product, UED and Sales to develop and deploy key initiatives
* Handled front end production releases

h3. Farheap Solutions

Santa Ana, CA
Software Developer
July 2006 - April 2007
"http://www.farheap.com/":http://www.farheap.com/

* Created web based UI for printing industry product fulfillment application
* Developed for web based touchscreen and mobile devices
* Wrote core application features using PHP
* Integrated website ordering with partners using web services, XML and SOAP in PHP

h3. Data Strategies, Inc.

San Diego, CA
Senior Software Developer
June 2001 - July 2006
"http://www.elligence.net/":http://www.elligence.net/

* Extensive work on browser based client (IE6 within a VB6 application)
* Created desktop like interactions for browser based client
* Used concepts like AJAX for web based applications before it was standard practice
* Designed and implemented many key features including: Accounting, Reports, Collections, User authentication, and more
* Implemented application styling using CSS
* Responsible for much of the database layout and queries
* Administrated source code management systems (CVS and Subversion)
* Handled build and release duties
* Mentored co-workers and performed code reviews
* Was the "go to guy" for many aspects of the software

h2. Side Projects

h3. Shapes

2008
Play: "http://geoffblair.com/games/shapes":http://geoffblair.com/games/shapes
Source: "http://github.com/geoffb/shapes":http://github.com/geoffb/shapes

* JavaScript/DHTML clone of Geometry Wars

h3. WoW Monkey

2006
Web: "http://wowmonkey.net":http://wowmonkey.net
Source: "http://github.com/geoffb/wowmonkey":http://github.com/geoffb/wowmonkey

* Online database of World of Warcraft game information
* Reverse engineered and wrote custom parser for World of Warcraft game data files

h3. San Diego Professional Coaches Alliance

2002-2003
"http://sandiegocoaches.com":http://sandiegocoaches.com

* Online presence for business and personal consultant group
* Members profiles which list specialties and services
* Advanced search allowing users to find consultants who meet their specific criteria
* Member signup/renewal integration with PayPal

h2. Other interests

* Snowboarding
* Gaming (video games and board games)

h2. References

Available upon request.
